All right.
So in this lesson, we'll do a quick introduction to this slice method on an array.
If you are comfortable with the slice method, you can feel free to skip this lesson.
Otherwise join me in our playground JS file in our source folder.
As a reminder, this is our little playground, our scratch pad for playing around with various JavaScript
and view concepts.
So what does the slice method do?
The slice method it returns a copy of an original array, but it can limit the elements in the original
array based on our specified index positions.
So if we want to extract a subsection or a subset of an original array in a copy, we can do that with
this slice method.
So let me show you an example.
I'll begin by defining an array of sushi.
I'm just going to call it const sushi, and let's populate this with some of my favorite fish.
So let's do tuna, let's do salmon, let's do yellowtail, let's do eel, let's do shrimp, let's do
octopus and let's do uni.
So I have an array of seven strings.
Let me show you what happens if I take the sushi array and I invoke the sliced method on it.
Technically, we can invoke slice with either zero arguments, one argument or two arguments.
And let me show you all syntax options.
So if I invoke slice with no arguments, I'm simply going to get a copy of the original array.
So right here, I'm going to use Node to run source playground.
Yes.
And I'm going to console.log my new copied array.
And so we're going to get the original array.
Nothing fancy here.
Nothing crazy.
But it's an easy way to create a copy of an array.
Now, what happens when we provide arguments?
When we provide arguments, we specify the boundaries from where we'd like to extract certain values
from the original array.
So if we provide one argument, we specify the lower bound.
The lower bound is the index from which we want to pull values from.
So, for example, if I put a value of two here, what I am saying is pull values from index position
two until the end of the array.
So in this scenario, index position two is yellowtail.
So we're going to get a new array that's going to hold all elements from yellowtail to the end of the
original array of sushi.
So here, if I rerun the file, you're going to see we're going to get a new array of five elements,
starting with the element that was at index position, too, of my original sushi array.
Similarly, if I provide an argument of four that says slice or take from index position four to the
end of my array index position four is shrimp right here.
So that means an array of shrimp, octopus and uni.
Right here.
We see that array.
All right.
Now, what about two arguments?
Two arguments provide the lower bound or the starting index and the upper bound, which is the ending
index.
But here is a very important caveat to remember the lower bound or the starting index is inclusive.
That means that JavaScript will include the value at that index position, the exact same way that we
just saw with a single argument.
However, the upper bound, which is the ending index or the second argument, a slice is the index
that we're going to end at, but that is exclusive, which means the value there is not going to be
included.
We're going to go up to that index, but not actually include the value at that index.
So if I, for example, provide arguments of two and four, I am telling JavaScript to make a copy of
sushi starting from index positions two and going all the way to four.
However, index position force element will not be included.
So this will simply be an array of two elements the elements at index positions two and three.
And that is going to be yellowtail and eel.
So if I save that file and run it, you're going to see we're going to get yellowtail and eel.
So if I wanted to include shrimp, which is that index position for I have to go up to five because
that way I'm going to tell JavaScript to go up to index position five but not include it, which includes
index positions two, three, four, that is yellowtail, eel and shrimp.
And that's what I'm going to get right here.
All right.
As one more example, if I change this to three and six, what I'm saying is started in next position
three and pull all the way up to but not including index position six.
So index position three is this eel right here?
Three, four, five.
We're not going to include the unit at position six.
So this is going to be a three element array of eel, shrimp and octopus.
All right.
So that is how the sliced method works.
And hopefully you get a sense of how we can apply this to our view project, because if we have an array
of 100 job objects, we can use slice to figure out which batch of ten we want to pull out in a sub
array in order to display on a given page.
For example, on the first page we can pull out indexed positions zero through ten or in other words,
the first ten jobs.
On the next page we can pull out indexed positions ten, two through 20 or the second batch of ten jobs
and so on, all the way to the end.
So in the very next lesson, we're going to see how we can use the slice method within our component.
So I will see you there.